Finish freshness update / reorg on LINQ content (#40437)
dotnet/docs: docs/csharp/linq/get-started/write-linq-queries.md

:::code language="csharp" source="./snippets/SnippetApp/WriteLinqQueries.cs" id="write_linq_queries_5b":::

## Dynamically specify predicate filters at run time

In some cases, you don't know until run time how many predicates you have to apply to source elements in the `where` clause. One way to dynamically specify multiple predicate filters is to use the <xref:System.Linq.Enumerable.Contains%2A> method, as shown in the following example. The query returns different results based on the value of `id` when the query is executed.

:::code language="csharp" source="./snippets/SnippetApp/RuntimeFiltering.cs" id="runtime_filtering_1":::

> You can use control flow statements, such as `if... else` or `switch`, to select among predetermined alternative queries. In the following example, `studentQuery` uses a different `where` clause if the runtime value of `oddYear` is `true` or `false`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use control flow statements, such as `if... else` or `switch`, to select among predetermined alternative queries. In the following example, `studentQuery` uses a different `where` clause if the run-time value of `oddYear` is `true` or `false`.
```

## Handle exceptions in query expressions

It's possible to call any method in the context of a query expression. Don't call any method in a query expression that can create a side effect such as modifying the contents of the data source or throwing an exception. This example shows how to avoid raising exceptions when you call methods in a query expression without violating the general .NET guidelines on exception handling. Those guidelines state that it's acceptable to catch a specific exception when you understand why it's thrown in a given context. For more information, see [Best Practices for Exceptions](../../../standard/exceptions/best-practices-for-exceptions.md).

The final example shows how to handle those cases when you must throw an exception during execution of a query.

The following example shows how to move exception handling code outside a query expression. This refactoring is only possible when the method doesn't depend on any variables local to the query. It's easier to deal with exceptions outside of the query expression.

:::code language="csharp" source="./snippets/SnippetApp/Exceptions.cs" id="exceptions_1":::

> In the `catch (InvalidOperationException)` in the preceding example, handle (or don't handle) the exception in the way that is appropriate for your application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the `catch (InvalidOperationException)` block in the preceding example, handle (or don't handle) the exception in the way that is appropriate for your application.
```

In some cases, the best response to an exception that is thrown from within a query might be to stop the query execution immediately. The following example shows how to handle exceptions that might be thrown from inside a query body. Assume that `SomeMethodThatMightThrow` can potentially cause an exception that requires the query execution to stop.

> The `try` block encloses the `foreach` loop, and not the query itself. The `foreach` loop is the point at which the query is executed. The runtime exception is thrown when the query is executed. Therefore they must be handled in the `foreach` loop.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `try` block encloses the `foreach` loop, and not the query itself. The `foreach` loop is the point at which the query is executed. Run-time exceptions are thrown when the query is executed. Therefore they must be handled in the `foreach` loop.
```
